It's important to understand how navigation works and native apps and especially if you have a web development
background it's important to understand how it differs from navigating between screens and the web because
in the web you actually enter a you are L and if you're building a react app you use a tool like to
react router to then load the users component.
And if you click a link that goes to my site dot com slash products again the react router which is
extra library you installed kicks in sees that you change the path in your U.R.L. and loads a different
react component.
That's how navigation works in the web.
So do you are L is your source of truth and changing that you are l might be picked up by libraries
like react router which then rendered different components onto the screen.
That's how I react for web works.
Now there is one important difference to that when we think about native apps.
We have no you are ell users don't go around in your app by entering some you are L instead you are
pressing buttons your pressing taps and you're going forth and back.
You have back buttons you have side drawers that's how you navigate on mobile apps to be precise.
As I mentioned having taps is one common pattern you see there.
The average common pattern is that you navigate in a stack of pages and that simply means that you go
to some page you click on some item you're taken to a new screen and then automatically you get a back
button it top or on Android you have one built into the device of course.
And when you press that your navigated back to the page you were on before and you get a smooth transition
for that.
So there you could navigate around for example load a users component by pressing the tab or by pressing
a special item and being navigated there and the allegation simply looks and feels a bit different to
the users.
Now of course we want to bring that look and feel to our ReACT native app too.
And thankfully that's very easy.
With the help of a third party library will use the third party library which will use it for this I
stopped my exposed server here is react navigation.
We can install it with npm install dash dash safe react navigation like this.
And this is called react navigation it's actually a navigation library that's built for react native.
Now you can also kind of use it in web apps but its main focus is native apps built with React Native.
So even though it's called the react navigation it's for React Native not just for react for the web
so we can simply install this package here into our application to get started using it.
And of course I'll teach you the ins and outs of this package and how to use it for different navigation
patterns in this module.
But in case you want to dive deeper or you also want to have a written guide.
Definitely also check out react navigation dot ORIC which is the official page of this package where
you can dive into the docks to learn all about this package.
There you can read all about it in great detail.
You'll learn how to use it how to configure it and so on.
There is a lot you can do with it and whilst I will cover the majority of this here this is a great
resource for you to dive deeper.
Now one additional step we need to perform during installation when using react navigation in the Expo
project is that we installed these two extra packages with the expo install command not NPM installed
but Expo install.
Though the only difference is that Expo installed behind the scenes will run npm install but it will
pick the specific versions of these two packages that work with your specific Expo version.
So it's a safer version of npm install you could say and therefore it's recommended that you use that
here.
So lets simply copy this command and also make sure that besides installing react navigation which is
the clear package of course we also installed these two packages into the project by running Expo install
here now with installation finished here I can restart my Expo server with NPM start and we can now
start using react navigation.
Now for this I'll trade a new folder in my project and I'll name it navigation.
This is not something you have to do but it can help you keep your code clean because in there.
I'll create a new file all create my meals navigator dot J.S. fall.
Now this file name is totally up to you.
I just want to indicate that in there I will set up the configuration for my navigation for my meals
app here which which I'm building.
So that's why I name it like this.
And it's the meals navigator jazz fall where I want to set up my well navigation configuration I want
to tell react navigation that library we installed which different screens we have how they are connected
and how we want to be able to move between them.
Now it's easier to simply see that than to just talk about them.
So therefore in the meals navigator let's get started setting up some navigation.